[Music]
Bloomberg Audio Studios podcasts, radio,
news.
[Music]
>> Hello and welcome to another episode of
the OddLots podcast. I'm Joe Weisenthal.
>> And I'm Tracy Aloway.
>> Tracy, I have three thoughts about
stable coins.
>> Oh boy. Here we go. Just three. just
three. One is I think within the broader
realm of crypto, stable coins are real
and here to stay and probably going to
be important. Two, some of them seem
like an absolute cash money maker
because you don't pay any yield to the
holders. You collect the yield for what
you have backing it. It's a great
business model. It seems amazing. And
three, as the child of the uh great
financial crisis generation, I'm
convinced that if crypto is ever
implicated in a future financial crisis,
it might have something to do with
stable coins. You stole all my talking
points, Joe.
>> Honestly, the same brain.
>> I had like the note written down that,
you know, issuing liabilities that
mostly return nothing is a wonderful
business model.
>> What else did you could just restate in
your words?
>> Well, also I was thinking stable coins
are basically the primary touch point of
crypto to the regulated financial
system. And so you would expect some of
those financial stability concerns to
potentially materialize there. And then
the one thing you didn't mention that
I'm interested in is also this idea of
competition directly with the banks. And
as stable coins get more money market
fund like maybe more depositlike, we
have some stable coins that issue yield.
Now
>> what does that actually look like for
the financial landscape?
>> Totally. For traditional payment
companies of all sorts, I mean we all
know that legacy payment companies
collect a pretty big rent so to speak
for use of their network. In theory,
there could be almost no cost at all for
a stable coin transaction or virtually
minimal. It seems appealing. On the
other hand, getting people to switch on
mass from using like a sort of debit
card or credit card to a stable coin is
sort of a tricky chicken and egg
problem, but you know, it's a real
competitor to an existing way of doing
payments.
>> Also, the one thing we didn't mention is
it's kind of becoming important from a
fiscal standpoint for the United States.
And you have Treasury Secretary Scott
Bessant saying that he expects all this
new stable coin issuance to basically
increase demand for US debt for
treasuries for mostly tea bills. And so
there's a lot to talk about.
>> There is a lot to talk about. We really
do have the perfect guest today. We are
going to be speaking with Jeremy. He is
the co-founder and CEO of Circle
Internet. They recently went public in
early June and they've had a monster
IPO. Incredible demand for this company.
incredible enthusiasm. They are of
course the sponsor of USDC, one of I
think it's the second biggest stable
coin out there after Tether. So Jeremy,
thank you so much for uh coming in
studio here on OddLots.
>> I'm really excited to be here. As uh you
guys laid out, there's a lot to talk
about.
>> I said it in the beginning, stable coins
seem like an incredible business model
because here you have all these people
holding a non-yield bearing token.
They're backed by in many cases yield
bearing assets that incorporate a lot.
On the other hand, in Circle's case, a
lot of the money that occurs to you goes
straight to Coinbase. Explain to us your
relationship with Coinbase and so people
can understand sort of the economics of
the money that you bring in and then how
it goes out the door.
>> Yeah, maybe I'll actually start with
something a little bit higher level and
then drill in. So when we think about
our business and what we have built and
what we operate is we think about it as
an internet scale platform and network
utility. So, we're a set of software on
the public internet that people can
build on and integrate to and it
provides this utility which is this
global utility for storing and moving
value around the world. And there's a
regulated part of it and there's a
technology part of it. And so, as part
of that, we want to build the largest
stable coin network in the world with
the most usage and the most transactions
and the most utility. We can talk more
about what that looks like. And as we
built this, as we launched this back in
2018, we knew that we needed to really
focus on building upfront utility and
then building really good distribution
relationships. And so in our business,
we have sort of the scale of the
network, which is measured by the number
of people who can reach in their pocket
and use USDC. There are over 600 million
accounts that can access and use USDC
around the world. A lot of that is
through distribution partners that we
have
>> like Coinbase. Coinbase is one, Binance
is another, and many, many more. You can
find USDC on Robin Hood, on Kraken. You
can find USDC in super apps in foreign
countries like New Bank, the biggest NEO
bank in Brazil, or in a product like
GCash in the Philippines, which is the
dominant financial product for many
Filipinos. And so, we make that product
available globally. And we have a
philosophy of incentivizing, you know,
distributors to grow with us. And so, I
think that's really fundamental to the
philosophy. And right now I think we're
in the early stages of building this.
You know, the the numbers in the
aggregate are sizable, but when we think
about what this can grow into and the
volume of money storage and money
movement that will happen in an internet
native way, you know, we we think we're
still in the very early stages of that.
I mean, I understand that argument, but
Coinbase also took, I think, more than
50% of your revenue from reserve assets
last year, which seems like a lot to pay
for distribution when you're already the
second biggest stable coin in the world.
Is that partnership, you know, will the
math always make sense to you? And I
guess how often do you actually renew
that agreement?
>> Yeah, so a couple things. So, first of
all, we have a great relationship with
Coinbase. They've been such a huge
partner and really bet big on this way
before anyone else. And so I think I
give Brian a lot of credit for really
seeing that USDC could be a fundamental
part of their entire business. And
really they've baked USDC into all their
retail products, their institutional
products. They're building new payments
products around it. They're really
betting not the entire company, but
they're betting a lot on it. And that's
amazing. And when you think about
networks that were built in the past
from the 70s or the 80s or in other
times, you definitely need these big
anchor tenants that really bet on it and
help drive the utility. But to the
degree that Coinbase has leaned in,
that's really helped create demand for
usage in other places. So Coinbase's
largest rival, Binance, for example, is
also a significant partner on this. And
I think with the Genius Act passing,
which I know we'll come back to, and
regulatory clarity kind of happening
around the world, we're entering a new
chapter in all of this. We were sort of
in the early adopter phase, which was
really primarily anchored in like crypto
trading markets and things like that.
And now we're entering this kind of more
mainstream phase where payment
companies, banks, financial
institutions, capital markets companies,
lots of consumer companies, consumer
internet companies are all getting
involved. And so our view is that the
sort of share of the pie as it were is
going to be more and more diversified
and grow the pie will grow and the
diversity of the participants and that
will grow over time as well.
>> Real quickly, what is the genius act
mean for your business? What changes pre
and post Genius Act? So Genius Act is
very significant in our view and it's
actually in some ways we've been arguing
for kind of federal policy and
regulation around this new form of
electronic money to some degree since I
went to the capital in 2013 and started
articulating a regulatory view on this
but in a very significant way really for
the last 5 years we've been pushing for
federal regulation and what that does is
first of all it enshrines in federal
law, many of the things that we had made
core to the way we operate,
transparency, having major audits of our
firm, safety and soundness requirements.
It ensures that the reserve itself is
effectively a cash instrument and allows
this to be treated as a cash instrument.
And by having that federal framework, it
opens up opportunities in two
significant ways. I think the first is
now if you're a a corporation, a public
corporation, or you're a financial
institution, you now know what these
are. You can hold these and treat these
like cash on your balance sheet. This
paves the way for the use of payment
stable coins in wholesale payments,
retail payments, as eligible collateral
on capital markets, venues. So it really
opens up the aperture of what people can
use this for and it gives all those
financial institutions and and companies
the clear definition and the faith that
they can interact with this and they
know it's bankruptcy protected and all
this good stuff. The other big thing is
that and this ties into one of the
opening comments is having this as a
defined part of the US financial system.
So, stablecoin money, which in my view
is a new form of M1 electronic money,
having that as a defined part of the US
financial system, means that it can be
expanded internationally in very
significant ways. Governments all around
the world will be able to enact their
own stable coin laws as they are, and I
can talk about a dozen countries where
that's the case, and they can recognize
issuers that are under federal
supervision in the US and enable those
to interact with their markets. And so
it opens up the global adoption here
within the regulated financial system in
a very major way. And so for us, all of
that is we view as a tailwind to have
more and more people building on top of
this infrastructure that we've been
building.
>> So in terms of integration with the
financial system and competition with
the banks, of course, you still under
the Genius Act, you do not have access
to the Fed's balance sheet. Is that
right?
>> That's correct. So a couple things. So
one is the Genius Act doesn't sort of
specify who has access to the Fed's
balance sheet. What it does say though
is that uh uh eligible reserves in a
stable coin can include cash at the Fed.
It can include short duration T bills.
It can include repo treasury repo
facilities etc. And for us as circle, we
actually just announced very recently
that we had filed to establish a new
entity called First National Digital
Currency Bank. And First National
Digital Currency Bank is in application
with the OC to become a national trust
bank. And under the Genius Act, as a
large issuer, greater than 10 billion,
you know, we're around 64 billion today,
you know, we will come under OC
supervision. And so we're trying to line
up the kind of infrastructure of Circle
against the kind of upcoming regulatory
regime and we want to make sure we've
got the best underlying kind of
infrastructure there for people who
would build on us. So I said in the
intro that my worry is that if there was
ever a financial crisis that involves
crypto connected, it's going to be
somehow due to stable coins because I
always think like entities that are
pegged to the dollar that deviate from
the dollar, that's where you get into
trouble. People think this is a dollar
and suddenly it's worth 95 cents. That
actually did happen to circle in early
2023 very briefly with the collapse of
SVB. Could that ever happen again or is
there a way to say this could never
happen again?
>> Well, a couple things. So, secondary
market trading is where we saw that. But
we've
>> But you weren't able the desks weren't
able to keep it at a dollar. Whatever it
was that did happen. That's because the
banks were seized by the federal
government and so banking was not
available over that time. But
nonetheless, it's a really important
question. It's a fundamental question,
right? Which is the real question in my
mind is is a full reserve model of money
a safer model of money than a fractional
reserve model of money. And in our
financial system today, we do have FDIC
for the fractional reserve banks. Now,
that's for small depositors. The vast
majority of deposits in the banking
system are uninsured deposits. Now, some
of those sit with so-called too big to
fail financial institutions, therefore
implicitly have the bailout power of the
federal government, like we'd never let
them fail. But that's sort of
theoretical. You could imagine a
scenario where the federal government
doesn't have the balance sheet or it
doesn't want to create the inflation or
or whatever it would be.
>> The lack of political appetite.
>> Lack of political appetite. I mean, that
was on the verge in the financial crisis
that was jamming it through Congress,
which was then challenged later. But I
think and by the way this gets to the
genesis of circle like why did I start
this company? I spent a number of years
like reading about what happened with
the financial crisis how did this
happen? What is the nature of money?
What is the nature of central banking?
How does the international monetary
system work? All of these things were
fascinating to me and I was running a
completely different kind of business
which was an online video technology
business and I kind of thought
intuitively that there had to be a
better way and it was actually through
my kind of introduction to crypto in
2012 that I sort of saw hey there might
be a path here and while a lot of people
were obviously focused on Bitcoin as a
full reserve sort of sound money
philosophy and I'm sure you've had
plenty of people to talk about that. Oh
yes.
>> Over the over the years,
>> but for me at least the idea of sound
money of kind of having a different risk
model in the financial system was very
appealing to me and in particular this
idea of fully reserved dollar digital
currency and you know I'm an adherent to
the Chicago school and the Chicago plan
I should say which was a particular
philosophy that was advanced in the
aftermath of all of the bank failures in
the 1930. 1930s and there were really
two responses. There was a group of
prominent economists some of Irving
Fischer who was at the Chicago school at
the time and there was industry and the
prominent economist said hey we could
build a full reserve model where you
have essentially government obligation
money or this full reserve form of money
that is in a payment type of institution
a payment bank and then you have a
separate institution which does credit
and you can only you can't create new
money out of thin air as banks do. you
could only lend the full reserve money
and the philosophy there was that that
would sort of reduce risk in in the
financial system and it would smooth out
economic cycles and that's come and gone
as a debate during the savings and loan
crisis after the great financial crisis
etc. But I think the advent of digital
currency in particular creates an
opportunity for this that I think is
really profound and when you think about
native money on the internet. So take
something like USDC which underrogenius
sort of gets defined as this cash
instrument the reserve instruments we
can discuss are those you know safe in
the sense of financial stability safe
but you have a fully reserved
instrument. What's powerful about
digital currency is it inherits what I
call the superpowers of the internet.
Meaning it inherits the speed and
velocity of data on the internet. And so
all of a sudden the marginal cost of
storing and moving value goes very close
to zero and money velocity can
accelerate significantly and that
creates its own risks. But this high
velocity money that's moving on the
internet that can move literally from
any person entity any AI agent any
business all these sort of machine
interactions all this stuff that happens
globally it's kind of crazy to think
about having that be the underlying on
that to be like a bank's stack of
lending risk and to have all of these
lending risk IUS floating free
circulating on the internet and so my
view is that the base
of money in the internet financial
system which I think is a new financial
system that's being built up from the
ground up that the base layer of money
needs to be this full reserve form of
money that is actually safer that begs
the question of how do you do credit and
all that good stuff which I'm happy to
give you my views on but I think the
philosophy is actually how do you do
something that's actually safer that
people can look at and say I know that
this is always available it's not that
if the bank fails I might get my FDIC
insurance cap. It's like I know what
this is and there's a credential
supervisor and there's actually this
enforced risk management which improves
and continues to improve over time.
[Music]
You know, you mentioned the safety of
the reserve assets and this is something
that is in the act. It kind of defines
what you're supposed to hold. So things
like tea bills, highquality liquid
assets, all that good stuff. We've been
talking about a safe asset shortage in
the financial system for it feels like
decades now, right? It feels like there
is not enough good collateral to go
around for everyone. And as stable coins
ramp up, I'm really curious if you're
worried about the crowning out effect,
if there's going to be enough tea bills
in the world to satisfy that 1:1 reserve
requirement.
>> Yeah. So, if it was exclusively on the
basis of short-term government debt and
this got to be tens of trillions of
dollars or whatever, then then you might
have a mismatch there. Now, obviously,
regulation isn't going to stand still on
this. So the genius act is a significant
piece of legislation and it defines this
framework. That framework is inclusive
of cash that is overcolateralized
lending with repo desks. It includes T
bills of the shortest duration and it
does include cash in the financial
system and it includes eligible reserves
at the Federal Reserve as cash as well.
And so over time as this infrastructure
scales I think that mixture gives us a
huge amount of capacity that I think you
know arguably could support many tens of
trillions of of dollars of value.
>> So wait just to be clear on one specific
are you completely non-exposed to
non-FDIC insured deposits? Are you
completely extricated yourself from that
system? No. And and in fact, let me
describe what we do. And we today by far
operate with the greatest transparency
of any other stable coin, any other, you
know, regulated stable coin in the
world. And we've done that through a
couple of things. The first is we
created a structure called the circle
reserve fund, which is really designed
to provide transparency into the
reserves. So we did that with BlackRock
and it's an SEC registered what's called
2A7 fund. So, it's a government
obligation fund, but it gives daily
transparency into essentially about 90%
of everything in the reserves. And so,
you can look every day. You can search
USDXX.
>> I pulled it up on my blue.
>> There you go. And you can drill in and
you can see exactly the serial numbers
of every T bill, the short duration T
bills, and we I think we have an average
maturity of about 23 days in that
reserve. And um
>> Bloomberg says 13 right now, but I'm not
I don't I you know, whatever.
>> Is that what it says?
>> That's what it says. I'm just looking
I'm just looking at the screen. That may
in fact I'm just looking at the screen.
>> That may in fact be what it is today.
That's that's what Bloomberg says.
Great. Um
>> and and then you can also see like the
global systemically important banks that
we have repo relationships with and and
that's there as well. So you can see
that that's about 90%. And then there's
cash and the cash about 98% of the cash
is held with a very limited number of
global systemically important banks. And
these global systemically important
banks are the sort of lowest credit risk
kind of cash custodian type banks. And
so we hold the reserves there. Now you
can argue about how safe is that cash
relative to, you know, kind of sharted
out across all kinds of other stuff. But
that's sort of what's there today. And
we need to do that because we need
intraday liquidity. We need to ensure
that in the event of 5 billion, 10
billion, whatever it is, that's always
available. And then there's a very very
limited amount which we position in
settlement banks uh and and reserve
accounts in different geographies to
ensure that it's easy to create and
redeem USDC whether you're in Singapore
or Japan or Europe and and other places.
We also have a separate issuance of USDC
and a a completely separate reserve
mandate and supervision in Europe as
well. So we dualissue USDC. We issue it
under European rules under the Mika
stable coin statutes and we issue it in
the United States and we have created a
way for kind of fungeibility across
those. H is the ultimate ambition to
really take on and compete with the
deposit taking institutions in the sense
that you want to get big corporate
clients maybe the type of clients that
would put their money in uninsur well
they have so much money some of it would
end up being uninsured by FDIC or they
might put it in a money market fund or
something like that and if you're doing
that doesn't it seem like the biggest
hurdle is the lack of interest paid on
stable coins
>> so a Couple things I think the first is
that payment stable coins which is what
the Genius Act governs it and in fact
mirrors stable coin laws in Europe in
Japan and in other markets that are
bringing these online. These are
designed to be cash instruments that are
used in payments and as a as a payment
system technology. They're not designed
to be risk-taking instruments that you
would say deposit and lend. And they're
not designed to be investment products.
You're not purchasing a security. you're
not purchasing an investment. And so
they're narrowly defined and Genius Act
enforces that. And so I think that's the
right design for this base layer kind of
cash instrument. Now that doesn't mean
that you can't build digital tokens that
present yield. And while people call
these stable coins, I think that term of
art will probably change. People call
them tokenized real world assets,
tokenized money market phones, tokenized
treasuries. So we operate a sizable
tokenized money market fund product
called USYC and USYC is fungeible with
USDC. So a business for example could
hold USYC and earn the yield that would
be your typical kind of government fund
type yield but have the ability to
instantly create and redeem cash and
instantly create and redeem yield. And
so we acquired a company called Hashnote
and we've integrated that into our core
infrastructure and we've just brought
this online. It's it's a very powerful
structure if you can have tokenized
yield bearing collateral and then
instantly uses as cash for settlement
for trading for spending etc. And so I
think that that's something that we can
kind of do uniquely because we have this
widely adopted payment stable coin and
then kind of marrying those two together
and and we can do it in a very very
capital efficient way because
essentially the reserves of USDC mirror
the actual instruments in USYC and so
there's a sort of fungeability between
USYC and USDC reserves. So let's talk
about the competitive landscape in a few
years from now. So, at some point,
you're going to revisit your agreement
with Coinbase. Maybe JP Morgan will have
a payment coin that they're going to
want to be the preferred coin that sits
there. And maybe they're going to be
willing to give Coinbase a huge split
for Pride of Place. Or maybe there'll be
some other coin that they use for
interbank settlements that'll be
tokenized in some way to make their
transfers with City and Bank of America
and other banks more competitive. We
have seen other coins rise, First
Digital in Asia, for example. like if
you're paying all this money to Coinbase
still and you you know distribution is
so important what is the competitive
advantage that Circle has in say the
year I don't know 2028 well I I think a
couple things I think the first is that
to understand circle's business is to
understand that we operate an internet
scale platform and network utility we
have very powerful internet platform
flywheels and developer flywheels we
have a network that consists of
thousands and thous thousands of
products and services that have
implemented and integrated to our
network. And so every time a developer
says, "Hey, I want to be able to store
and move digital dollars, they choose to
implement USDC because USDC has this
really broad established network." And
so we have these really powerful
flywheels and as that provides new
utility to a user when say new bank in
Brazil adds USDC, wow, there's like 100
million people at New Bank who can
interact with USDC. Now the rest of the
world can benefit from that user base of
100 million people. And so we have
network effects that are there and those
exist in in pretty powerful ways. So if
you look at the movement of stablecoin
in the onchain ecosystem, what sometimes
people call DeFi, we have about I
believe today around 75% of the market
there. And we've built protocols that
make it very seamless, safe, and secure
and capital efficient to transmit USDC
across all these different networks.
We've built developer platforms. We've
built flywheels for adoption. And this
is a classic internet platform model.
The other is that we've built these
extraordinary liquidity network effects.
And this is really critical. So over the
past number of years, we've built out on
a regulated basis infrastructure where
we're regulated and where we have
integration into the financial systems
of Singapore, Hong Kong, Japan, the
United Kingdom, the EU, the US. We've
integrated into Brazil, Mexico, and
we've just announced that we're coming
online in UAE. So, we've built out these
integration points, and we've built out
primary liquidity in all of these
markets. And so, USDC is available and
liquid at scale all around the world.
That's the primary liquidity side. And
and so that's crucial. If you're going
to use this, you need to be able to know
I can get in, I can get out, and I can
do that all around the world. And then
we've created very large secondary
liquidity, and that's really important
as well. So when you get down to the
e-money product in Vietnam, can you go
from that e-money product in Vietnam
into USDC and back and all around the
world? All these different payment
methods and payment instruments and the
actual secondary liquidity between those
and USDC is huge. And so the barrier to
entry is actually fairly high. We have
these large network modes and right now,
>> so it's not just like making a new
ERC20,
>> making a new coin. The marginal value of
a net new stable coin right now is
effectively zero. You have to have
established network utility and then
liquidity at scale. And essentially
liquidity begets liquidity. Network
velocity extends network velocity. And
so you know we feel like that's a very
very good position. And I think the
ability to be you know federally
regulated and to have these higher bars
on the infrastructure side and what's
required of you is is also really
important. That's not something for the
faint of heart. and doing that all
around the world, not just in the United
States. There's a lot of focus on the
United States, but we've been under
significant regulatory regimes in other
jurisdictions for for quite some time as
well. Those are, you know, meaningful
barriers. And I guess the bigger picture
there is like we're just focused on
building this infrastructure, making it
easy to adopt by whether it's a
technology company, a fintech company, a
bank. We're building partnerships with
some of the biggest core banking
infrastructure companies in the world.
We announced something recently with
Fiserve. Just yesterday, we announced a
broad partnership with FIS Global. And
these are companies that service tens of
thousands of banks. And we're plugging
USDC as a innovation into their
infrastructure. And so we even do it
with the card networks, Visa and
Mastercard, where they're using USDC as
an internal settlement system to move
money from issuers back to home base
faster than the correspondent banking
system. There's lots of places we're
getting integrated. And what I like to
say is I believe that the stable coin
stablecoin networks are a winner take
most not a winner take all market.
>> This was going to be my next question.
Can you talk about that a little bit
more like 10 years from now what is the
landscape actually look like and what is
the interoperability of all these
different stable coins actually look
like?
>> Yeah. So I think 10 years from now I
don't think we have any idea what it's
what it's going to look like. But I mean
there there's several different
components.
>> Real forward-looking statement.
>> Yeah. Yeah. Several different components
to this. So I think one is we take as a
first principle that stablecoin money is
the highest utility form of money that's
ever been created. And it's it's the
highest utility not just because it has
internet superpowers of speed and it
cost efficiency but because it's
actually the first truly programmable
form of money. And if you're going to
have a programmable form of money where
software intermediation and software
innovation on top of money has not
existed, open banking is like poor
cousin. So you're introducing a new
realm of money utility and we're at the
very front edges of that. And we see
that already today. I mean the entire
phenomenon of DeFi, which is highly
sophisticated market structures that are
just
>> autonomous machines effectively running
in in code on the internet. That's
pretty amazing. So when you unleash that
and you unleash that kind of curve of
innovation, like it's sort of like when
mobile devices were out, people were
into mobile for a really long time and
they were like, "Hey, mobile's going to
be huge and Mobile World Congress was
like the biggest conference in the
world." And you'd go there and there's
like
100,000 people there and and yet it all
sucked like like all the mobile phone
devices, everything was everything was
terrible, but everyone believed in
mobile. And then obviously the iPhone
came
>> and that was the end.
>> It wasn't the end. It was the beginning
is the point is that like actual
innovation with programmable apps on
phones actually started then in a real
way.
[Music]
I had a use case recently where I wanted
there to be a stable coin use case and I
think maybe this will coming.
>> So I've tried to do vibe coding where I
was like going on cursor and making
software and I wanted to link up my
software to chat GBT so that it could
query the AI. Yes.
>> And to access the API I had to like
enter in a credit card with GPT and then
I had to like copy and paste this code.
It was really annoying. And I was like
why can't I just have my cursor be
linked to a stable coin wallet? it make
the connection with Chad GBT's AI so
that I don't have to make an account and
it just pays per usage that is
intelligence
>> that is definitely what's going to
happen and in fact this is where I was
getting with my point actually in
response to you Tracy which is
>> like we think about the internet and
like when the marginal cost of storing
and moving information went to zero the
net world output of information like
millionxed or when software could be
distributed to a browser the net world
output of software was like up a
millionx so we create these huge growth
so my view is that over 10 years, we're
going to use your 10-year, is that the
total payment volume, which is a measure
that people like to use, is likely going
to go up by many, many, many orders of
magnitude because you've taken that cost
and friction out and because of the new
utility that comes from programmability.
And so my own belief is that the scale
of money that moves in the world will be
so much larger than where we are today.
It's sort of the internet infrastructure
actually hitting the financial system
which is a scary thing because like wow
you've got all this money velocity and
you've got machines that are
intermediating this through AI like oh
my god that's one of the reasons why it
needs to be very safe full reserve
instruments but it also I think gets to
the heart of your question which is are
we going after all the deposits of the
banks or all this is the the answer is
no but my belief is that financial
institutions who create either places
where people can lend their money and
then that money can be used for other
investing purposes or where people
actually make specific investments with
their money like those will proliferate.
In fact, I think innovation in both
credit intermediation and in investable
assets is about to go through a new
renaissance because of blockchains,
tokenization and stable coins. And so my
own view is in a in a system of full
reserve money, you need to be able to do
credit intermediation with that full
reserve money. And you need to make that
credit intermediation be as efficient as
possible. And I think you can build
onchain credit intermediation in a way
where you have greater safety, more
transparency, more auditable risk
management, and you can build market
structures that are far more accessible
to more people and institutions in the
world. I think of it as like Adwords for
credit like you know this sort of these
supercaled or or Amazon marketplace for
product creators. We haven't entered
that world yet but I think there will be
firms and that many of them will likely
be regulated by central banks who are
standing in that infrastructure. And so
it's an opportunity to reinvent what
payments, credit, investing, all these
things look like. Tracy, I kind of think
by the way, and we should maybe do a
separate, I think the internet as we
know it in terms of like internet that's
free to browse is probably going to die
because on a matter of time, you know,
if you're like AI bot can like go search
the web, those sites are going to want
payment for having all their data
scraped. And you know, stable coins
could solve that, but it does feel like
we're going to have a totally thing
where like you don't just get to use the
web for free. Everything is like metered
based on the uh the data that you're
pulling.
>> Yeah. Well, we were talking about that
earlier, right? This idea that we've
already seen traffic start to collapse
because the search engines are just
providing AI summaries to individual
pages. Yeah. How long are content
providers like uh like us?
>> How long are they going to stand for
that? I don't know.
>> Well, can I say something on that which
is we actually worked together with
Coinbase and a couple of others on
implementing some something called X42.
Now, you're like, what is that? And Mark
Andrees talks about this and he has over
the years back in the early days of the
web, you know.
>> Oh yeah, there you go. Actually, pay via
API without registration. That's what I
want. That's what I want for my V code.
So there exactly what I'm looking for.
>> So it's actually a it already exists as
a protocol that is built into
>> the way that every web server, every web
browser, every client that interacts
with the internet works. It's a protocol
that's there. It uses the existing HTTP
transport. And now you can actually say,
"Hey, I'm hitting my piece of content or
data." And I can challenge whoever's
accessing it and say, you know, to get
to this, you need to pay me. And it can
basically come back and say, you can pay
me on a blockchain with a stable coin.
>> And so we're doing that with USDC. We're
encouraging developers to do that.
There's lots of third parties that are
building layers for AI agents to use
this. And so I think that's one example,
but I think it gets to the heart of what
you're you're saying, which is there may
be more of a subscription model. Spotify
is probably the best example where you
have the celestial jukebox and you pay
your 15 bucks and you get access to
everything. You know, there's a kind of
question about could there be a
celestial data box which is more broad
and where the actual consumer frontends
are companies like OpenAI or Google and
you're paying a subscription and then
there's like a behind the scenes either
Pratta or usagebased model that is
actually compensating the actual data
providers and creators and so lots to be
unfold here. Yeah.
>> Can I ask a slightly awkward question?
>> It's a leading question.
>> How much do you hate Tether given that
not only are they number one, but you
know, there's been questions over their
reserve quality for many years, although
I think some of their transparency has
improved.
>> But thirdly, you know, we had the Tether
CEO on um a few months ago, and they're
expanding into the US. So that would
seem to, you know, directly be competing
with you on your sort of home turf,
although I understand you're also
expanding elsewhere in the world. How do
you feel about Tether? Yeah, I mean
look, I think our view has always been
that we're building for the long run and
we've taken a different approach really
since inception. We've taken a you know
a sort of regulatory first approach, a
compliance first approach, becoming
widely licensed, widely regulated,
always advocating to improve that. And
that's allowed us to build obviously
what we think is a great business. It's
allowed us to have deep integration into
the financial sector with banks. If
you're a major institution partnering in
this space, the probability of you doing
that with Circle is reasonably high. And
so we built a really great franchise and
we are really well known for integrity,
for trustworthiness. We're a publicly
traded company with the highest
standards of governance and and
accountability that are out there. And
we've always sought to uplevel that. And
so my view is that if we're building a
new internet financial system and that
new internet financial system is going
to be this incredibly broadly used
infrastructure and it's going to be used
by like mainstream companies and public
companies and and financial institutions
and financial intermediaries all around
the world are going to integrate with
that and build on that. They're going to
want to do that with trusted well-
reggulated companies. And so our view is
that the early adopter segment of the
market which has really been dominated
by sort of the crypto trading side of
things is that early adopter segment.
We're now going into a different
chapter. And if you actually look at
over the last, you know, 18 months,
we've taken market share, we've taken,
you know, material market share and
we're growing in many, many areas. And I
would say also internationally, I would
say the majority of our business now is
international. So we're in many many
markets and in many other markets as
well the regulators are putting in place
very clear regulations around what
stable coin issuers need to be and so we
are the only large global dollar
stablecoin that's legally available in
Europe as an example and so I think we
just keep doing what we're doing I think
we're building great infrastructure for
companies for enterprises for developers
and we just got to keep doing that and
we'll grow and this is a really
significant size market and so I
actually you know I have a lot of
respect for what they've been able to
build. We took a different path. We
built something also I think really
special and over 5 years 10 years as we
said earlier right this is very likely a
winner take most not a winner take all
market and I actually don't think we
know you know if there you know maybe
three or five big players I don't know
what that'll be in five years or 10
years but there's probably some that
don't exist yet that that will show up
too. I take it as a sign of maturity.
Like years ago when it came to crypto,
people were just excited about number go
up, right? And then now it's like people
are really excited about number go
sideways. And so if it just stays at one
forever, that's like a really good sign.
And so I take it as a sign of maturity
for the industry that there is all this
interest in stable coins. Nonetheless,
>> no pun intended.
>> Nonetheless, you know, all those public
chains are still out there and USDC is
on a number of chains,
>> 24. when we talk about like who collects
the profits from this and we've talked
specifically about say your distribution
with Coinbase and whether that do you
see value acrewing to token holders of
different chains in the future because
it seems to me like for the most part as
long as it's like really fast and cheap.
It really doesn't matter if I'm sending
something to Tracy. I care about your
reputation and your money in the bank. I
don't really care about what chain that
you actually transact over at the end.
If you want to do it under Salana or
some layer three that gives almost no
value back to the ETH chain or something
like that, I don't really care.
>> Do you see like token holders of the
public chains collecting rents in your
future or collecting a meaningful amount
of rents from this onchain commerce?
>> It's a great question. I I'd say a
couple things and and I'm actually going
to relate back to my my mobile
commentary from earlier which is our
mental model is that blockchain networks
are internet operating systems and they
provide a way to store data conduct
transactions on that data and and
provide compute around those
transactions and data. That's what they
do. They're public computing machines
>> and there are a lot of them. There's
actually, you know, thousands that have
been that have been launched. We're on
23 or 24 today. And we see this as a
space that is constantly evolving. And
so there's constantly innovation on the
layer ones. There's these layer twos.
When I think about where we are relative
to where we were with say iPhone, we're
in the pre iPhone era of blockchain
networks in my view, right? I I think um
there's lots of operating systems out
there just like there were lots of
mobile operating systems
>> and some of them got better than others
and improved the user experience. Some
of them started enabling consumer
things. remember NT Docomo in Japan or
or things like that. And so I think that
we're still really early. And so that's
one of the reasons why we've, you know,
really tried to make sure we're trying
to operate our own stable coin network
on the best ones that are out there.
>> It just seems to me that decentralized
chains, you pay them a rent because you
want some advantage of decentralization.
If I'm using USDC, I've already accepted
the premise of centralization. You have
money in black the black rockck fund.
It's about it's about as centralized and
legacy fi as you could probably get once
I've already accepted this premise of
centralization that my money is just
backed by a bank.
Why do I even care? Why why pay these
rent to some network of computers?
>> So this is this is it's a different
layer is is essentially my thinking is
that public blockchains are a general
purpose layer that many many
applications can be built on top of.
Stable coins are the killer app for
sure. I will say in my own opinion, but
there are many many different kinds of
applications that can be built on that.
And we need innovation in those
computing platforms. We need higher
speed. We need greater privacy. We need
better forms of compute. We need new and
you know more primitives in that
infrastructure and that needs to expand.
We need to get to a point where these
public networks are supporting huge
scales of consumer applications and
enterprise applications. And so there's
like a a growth in that kind of
infrastructure side of it and that's
those are shared infrastructures that
many people can can take advantage of.
And so there needs to be a kind of fee
model on those networks. We've actually
created a way for the fees on many of
these blockchain networks to actually
just be paid in USDC. And so that's
something that we see more of happening
that like the notion of gas fees or the
notion of gas fees in some other crypto
commodity will will become less and less
common and like fees will just be paid
in in stablecoin. But I think there is
value in these networks and I think that
there's very likely value for token
holders on these networks if these
networks provide you know scalable
infrastructure that that people can take
advantage of. Again, stablecoin is one
application layer there and there'll be
many many other application layers on
those and and so you kind of pay for the
shared the shared state of the machine,
the shared data state, the shared
transaction state, the shared compute
state. There's value in paying for that
shared state.
>> Just on this note, can you tell us when
you're talking to clients or potential
partners like what is it that they are
most interested in getting from you? Can
you provide us with a sort of hierarchy
of needs for you know USDC customers in
the sense of are they worried about the
speed of the technology? Are they
worried about the reserve assets and I
guess corporate governance and things
like that? How would you prioritize what
people are actually thinking about?
Well, we have a huge range of types of
people that we work with from like
individual developers that are creating
a new product in some emerging market to
you know people building onchain
protocols to very large you know
financial institutions that are looking
at using this or integrating this in
different ways and so the things that
they you know care about do vary across
those but I would say trust transparency
liquidity are really really important to
everyone, right? If I'm a developer and
I'm building a product, I need to know
that this is a legitimate digital
dollar, that it's accessible in the
markets that I'm intending to serve,
that people can easily access it and use
it, and that the infrastructure is good.
I can build good product experiences. I
can build good user experiences and
build an application or or or something
for my own customers that works well.
And so they care about the developer
tooling, the onchain infra, the
liquidity, the trust. They care about
all those things as a startup. But even
a large company, say you're a big
fintech and you're like, "Hey, I want to
start leaning into this. I want to add
stable coins for payments or I want to
enable my customers to access DeFi or
other things like that." They're going
to care more about the kind of legal and
compliance status of Circle. they're
going to care about the governance of
the company itself, but also of the the
underlying regulation that affects us
because they have to face those same
issues whether they're in the
Philippines or in Brazil or in the
United States. So they care a lot about
those things and then they also care
about infra clearly like infrastructure
readiness. Is this something like I
could bring a large number of users to?
And then everyone cares about user
experience, right? Can I craft an
experience where the crypto disappears,
>> where I don't need to know what
blockchain am I on I'm on and I don't
need to know about gas fees and I I just
want to create a way for I have a I have
stored value. I want to enable people to
move it around really easily. They care
a lot about that whether you're the
biggest company in the world or or a
small startup. Jeremy Alert, thank you
so much for uh coming on.
>> Thank you. My pleasure. probably the
first crypto company I can think of that
actually tried to go through the
regulatory approach and didn't get
destroyed and bogged down in the
process. Very impressive and um yeah,
great chatting with you.
>> Thank you.
[Music]
Tracy, you know, one question I didn't
get to ask or I forgot to ask is like
the perennial like will I ever buy
coffee with a stable coin at some point?
Maybe I will, maybe I won't. But in the
conversation, I started thinking that's
probably the wrong way to think about
it. It's going to be those
machineto-achine payments that if stable
coins become a real important payments
thing, it's going to be like those like
computer to computer payments that have
to be seen,
>> right? And they're sort of plugged into
the inner workings of the internet.
Yeah,
>> that makes sense.
>> Maybe the coffee thing will happen. Who
knows? But like I don't know.
>> I don't find it that hard to buy a
coffee right now.
>> No, that's the thing. That's the
problem, right? Exactly. Coffee is
solying coffee is a solved problem as
far as I'm concerned.
>> Yes. But this is a new problem. You're
right. it could be solved. That's
interesting. The other thing I thought
was really interesting was you hit upon
the sort of tension in the
decentralization versus like traditional
finance and this idea that like okay
it's all about DeFi and blockchain and
all that stuff but ultimately like
>> Black Rockck is holding the money.
>> Yeah. No, totally. And this is like, you
know, it's it goes back to those
formative episodes we did with Austin
Campbell, which is a big part of the
story to the extent that this will be a
thing is like
>> just solving the sort of software
payments layer because we could do a
million episodes on legacy texts and why
JP Morgans or whatever companies
internal software will always be they'll
be spending billions of dollars
upgrading it, whatever it is, and the
difficulty of integrations. But if you
could just have like a oneoff like so
like global platform that anyone can
plug into and program where money can
easily be transmitted that's very
powerful.
>> Yeah. This is why I say user interface
user experience is underrated. Right.
That's like me saying Michael Jordan is
underrated. It's but like that really
that really is it right? Like that's
where the battleground kind of is the
ability to like plug in and interoperate
with all these different systems.
>> Yeah. Well, I'm really excited. I I
think um we should have uh Jeremy back
at some point.
>> Yeah, we should. All right. Shall we
leave it there for now?
>> Let's leave it there.
>> This has been another episode of the Odd
Thoughts podcast. I'm Tracy Aloway. You
can follow me at Tracy Aloway.
>> And I'm Joe Wisenthal. You can follow me
at the stalwart. Follow our guest Jeremy
Aair. He's jer. Follow our producers
Kerman Rodriguez at Carmen Arman Bennett
at Dashbot and Kellbrooks at Kellbrooks.
For more OddLots content, go to
bloomberg.com/odlots
where we have a daily newsletter and all
of our episodes. And you can chat about
all of these topics 247 in our Discord,
discord.gg/odlots.
>> And if you enjoy OddLots, if you want us
to do more episodes on the future of the
payment system, then please leave us a
positive review on your favorite podcast
platform. And remember, if you are a
Bloomberg subscriber, you can listen to
all of our episodes absolutely adree.
All you need to do is find the Bloomberg
channel on Apple Podcast and follow the
instructions there. Thanks for
listening.
Yeah.
Heat.
[Music]